```
  TDP: 0010
  Title: Temporary Voting Mechanism for TokeSocial District Proposals
  Author: Dan Kelly (dan@toke.social)
  Status: Draft
  Type: Process
  Created: 2018-02-26
```

# Abstract
A temporary voting mechanism for contributors to vote on various proposals to be implemented within the TokeSocial district of Decentraland. It should be easy to tally and record votes.

# Copyright/public domain
Open Publication License.

# Specification
Utilize GitHub issue comments to show support for TDPs. Contributors should simply comment on the issues to show support or non-support of various proposals. 

* All users must use an existing or create a new GitHub account to comment.
* In the case of non-support, describe why you do not support and recommend amendments.
* Approval status should be based on the final proposal document. It is important to get unofficial consensus before asking for a vote and wasting members' time.
* GitHub comment edit history is preserved, redundantly the TDP editor could send screenshots to a service such as https://opentimestamps.org/

This will be the last proposal to go through with an official consensus vote, although plenty of time will be given to allow contributors to voice their opinions.

# Motivation
TokeSocial is building a community project and as such there must be a mechanism to fairly acquire consensus among contributors. There is currently no specification for a voting mechanism in TokeSocial and this is meant as a temporary solution. It should be adequate to get the project off the ground. 

# Rationale
The goal is to get the initial MVP running as soon as possible. This temporary solution requires very little work and can be deployed immediately until decentralized, immutable voting mechanisms are available.

TODO: Update with evidence of voiced consensus
