```
  TDP: 0020
  Title: TokeSocial Membership Share Representation
  Author: Dan Kelly (dan@toke.social)
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards
  Created: 2018-02-27
```

# Table of Contents
1. [Abstract](#abstract)
1. [Copyright/public domain](#copyright-public-domain)
1. [Specification](#specification)
   1. [ERC20 Token](#erc20-token)
      1. [Token Minting](#token-minting)
      1. [Initial Distribution](#initial-distribution)
         1. [Contributor fund](#contributor-fund)
         1. [District fund](#district-fund)
            1. [Allocation of district fund](#allocation-of-district-fund)
         1. [Founding leadership fund](#founding-leadership-fund)
      1. [Transferability](#transferability)
      1. [Lost wallet](#lost-wallet)
         1. [Resolution](#resolution)
      1. [Theft](#theft)
         1. [Deterrent](#deterrent)
   1. [Voting](#voting)
      1. [Protecting against 51% attacks](#protecting-against-51-attacks)
1. [Motivation](#motivation)
1. [Rationale](#rationale)
   1. [Other considerations](#other-considerations)
      1. [Distribute land to contributors](#distribute-land-to-contributors)
      1. [Distribute 100% membership tokens to contributors](#distribute-100-membership-tokens-to-contributors)
      1. [Distribute some utility token](#distribute-some-utility-token)
1. [Reference Implementation](#reference-implementation)

# Abstract
TokeSocial contributions should be represented via a "membership" or "share" token (TOKE).

# Copyright/public domain
Open Publication License.

# Specification
TokeSocial will use an ERC20 token to represent contributors share in the project. This will represent the weight of contributors' votes and any revenues that may be developed in the future.

## ERC20 Token
ERC20 tokens are decentralized and immutable, like Ethereum and Bitcoin. Although this carries a lot of desired properties for this application, these properties can also be seen as a negative effect.

ERC20 is an existing token standard that we can adopt very easily to provide a decentralized immutable ledger of contributors. [OpenZeppelin's Zeppelin-Solidity contracts](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/zeppelin-solidity) provide a proven reliable and secure base. Strong precautions, exhaustive review and unit testing should take place with any changes and new features to the Zeppelin contracts.

### Token Minting
* Tokens shall be minted at the same rate to purchase more land for TokeSocial as the initial minting.
* Minting distribution remains the same as the initial minting - 40% to the land contributor, 40% to the district fund and 20% put in vesting for 2 years for founding leadership, released in 2 equal portions at the end of each year.

### Initial Distribution
* Distribution is:
  * 40% to contributors, distributed based on contribution.
  * 40% to the district fund, to exchange for promotions, labour and other goods or services required to build, maintain and promote TokeSocial.
  * 20% to the founding leadership, these tokens shall be vested for 1 and 2 years and shall not have voting rights. See [Founding leadership fund](#founding-leadership-fund) for more information.

#### Contributor fund
40% of the initially minted tokens are given proportionally to the original contributors. These tokens serve as a record of share ownership of the TokeSocial project. These tokens give TDP votes more weight and may carries the value associated with that and any future revenue from the project.

#### District fund
40% of the minted tokens shall be used by the district to rewards contributors for their efforts as well as onboard new members to the team in exchange for their services. Distribution of these token shall be determined by votes of the existing contributors. These tokens carry voting rights.

The district fund tokens shall only be distributed based on consensus votes of the existing contributors.

##### Allocation of district fund
Any membership token transfers to new or existing project contributors are to be approved by a consensus vote. These approval may carry specific goals and transfers upon specific milestone completions. The details of how the tokens are released to contributors may be different per proposal.

#### Founding leadership fund
20% of the minted tokens shall be locked in the vesting contract. The vested tokens are released in equal portions for 2 years at the end of each year. Tokens in the vesting contract do not carry any voting rights until released. These tokens serve as incentive to organize and plan the TokeSocial district. Writing up proposals, refining ideas, recruiting and managing project contributors, and making TocialSocial and enjoyable experience for everyone. Any work done outside of the scope of Project Management shall be deemed as work for hire and paid out of the district fund.

### Transferability
In order to effectively contact and build a team of dedicated project supporters, TokeSocial shall require any prospective token to be approved before they may receive tokens. This also serves as a barrier to private key theft.

### Lost wallet
In the event of loss of your wallet private keys, access to your membership tokens (TOKE) would be lost. Make sure you backup your private keys safely and responsibly.

#### Resolution
In order to prevent loss of shares, voting rights and contribution status, it is suggested that the TokeSocial leadership is given approval to send membership (TOKE) tokens on your behalf. Adequate identifying information should be provided during this setup in order for the leadership team to validate your identity in the event of lost private keys.

### Theft
Theft of private keys normally a large risk with ERC20.

#### Deterrent
Token wallet addresses must be confirmed (registered and accepted) by the district leaders before they can receive "TOKE" tokens. Think of this as a whitelist. Users are less likely to steal if they are not anonymous.

## Voting
This membership token carries weighted voting rights on TDPs. Votes are weighted by the amount of membership tokens carried by the voter.

### Protecting against 51% attacks
TokeSocial aims to be decentralized in it's governance. Because of this, no single contributor may cast more than 50% of a total vote on their own. Even though the consensus threshold is 67%, we believe that setting the max vote to 50% will help ensure that no single entity or "whales" can overthrow TokeSocial and it's policies, this applies to everyone, including district leadership.

# Motivation
The district is not going to build itself. Although we have 11 parcels of land to build on, they still need content, the project needs marketing and people need to be rewarded for the work involved. It is not the vision of TokeSocial to have many ride on the backs of a few who are willing to do the work and make TokeSocial a success.

It is also not the vision of the project to outsource everything and give all the membership tokens away. We shall strive to in-source all work required for TokeSocial's success, also giving existing contributors to earn their fair share based on their contributions.

# Rationale
The goals of TokeSocial should remain in tact, it is a community based project to provide a fun place for cannabis users and supporters to gather and discuss issues and opportunities in the industry. TokeSocial requires services and resources to trade for those services to build this community and it is important that those "putting the time in" are rewarded as such.

Community, decentralization of power and fairness are the primary focal points of the decisions in this document.

## Other considerations
There are a few other options that were considered and none of them can be done fairly, some reasoning is outlined below.

### Distribute land to contributors
This is extremely difficult, especially on such a small scale.
* Who gets the roadside parcels? Who gets the rear end parcels?
* Are contributors interested in selling the land, or building on it?
* Why organize a "district" at all?

### Distribute 100% membership tokens to contributors
This was also considered but it has been determined:
* There is quite a bit of time and overhead that goes into organizing and planning.
* District leadership is responsible for working with everyone involved and keeping roles filled.
* If task completion cannot be in-sourced by the contributors than the district leader is responsible for finding someone who believe in the project enough to invest their time.
* The district leader has no incentive to keep the project moving forward.
* Internally and externally sourced work should be compensated equally. LAND is not the determining factor to TokeSocial's success but plays a large role due to placement.

### Distribute some utility token
Decentraland has made it clear that MANA will be the in-game currency. This is also not an accurate representation of contribution or share of vested interest in TokeSocial.

We may consider a utilities token for use outside of Decentraland as an additional benefit to TokeSocial contributors.

# Reference Implementation
* TODO: Build reference ERC20 token code
