```
  TDP: 0040
  Title: TokeSocial Initial Launch, MVP Proposal
  Author: Dan Kelly (dan@toke.social)
  Status: Draft
  Type: Process
  Created: 2018-02-26
```

# Abstract
A minimum viable product description utilizing the planned features of the initial Decentraland "Iron Age" launch. Although the goal is to stick to the plans as closely as possible, sometimes there are hickups, the plans and guidelines outlined here are an aspirational vision and should not be considered a promise.

# Copyright/public domain
Open Publication License.

# Specification
* General development plan and project vision
  * This is a for fun district aiming to attract a more dedicated user base of cannabis supporters
    * Red Light District will be extremely difficult to compete with as far as commerce, we should to focus on creative activities and specialization.
  * Contributors have the first opportunity to work for more share, community project first.
  * 
* Initial supported features / restrictions - static 3D content, no animations or interactive properties.
* Start up facilities
  * Lounge style area for socialization
  * Speakers, events
  * Cannabis inspired art (will require some approval)
  * Comming soon sneak peak at cannabis themed arcade games
* Proposed initial building layout
* Marketing, social media
  * Attracting users
* Partnerships
  * Advertising
  * Image and video rights
* Post startup
  * Associated revenue projects (additional tokens - ERC, NFT)
* District Leader definition
* Assignment of initial team, technical lead, 3D modeling, public relations and funding requests
  * Membership token requiring valuation first?
* LAND ownership (multisig wallet, district leader and the Decentraland team)
* Communication
* Governence
  * To use TDP0010 until TDP0011 is use in replacement
* Milestones
   1. LAND multisig wallet
   1. Final district approval by Decentraland, LAND acquisition
   1. LAND deployment
   1. Permanent governence model definition and deployment
   1. Start planning for the next phase of available features!
	   * Animation
	   * Video playback
	   * Games

# Motivation
The motivation is critical for TDP that wants to implement within TokeSocial. It should clearly explain why the existing specification is inadequate to address the problem that the TDP solves. TDP submissions without sufficient motivation may be rejected outright.

# Rationale
The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported elsewhere.

* The rationale should provide evidence of consensus within the community and discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.

# Backwards Compatibility
All TDP that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The TDP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. TDP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.

# Reference Implementation
The reference implementation must be completed before any TDP is given status "Final", but it need not be completed before the TDP is accepted. It is better to finish the specification and rationale first and reach consensus on it before writing code.

* The final implementation must include test code and documentation appropriate for the Decentraland protocol and TokeSocial policies.
